.\" manual page [] for apctest version 3.14.6
.Dd January 10, 2009
.Dt APCCONTROL 8
.Os apccontrol v3.14.6
.Sh NAME
.Nm apccontrol
.Nd apcupsd(8) event handler script
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
{ <event> <ups-name> <connected> <powered> }
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When 
.Xr apcupsd 8
detects anomalies from the UPS being monitored, it triggers an event which
usually results in one or more calls to the 
.Nm
shell script. 
Each event causes 
.Nm
to take a particular action. These actions default to sane behaviour 
for all the events that apcupsd is likely to encounter. However, 
you can change the behaviour of every single action.
.Pp
When apcupsd detects an event, it calls the 
.Nm
script with the following four arguments:
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "xxxxxxxxxx"
.It event
This is the event that occurred. Refer to the list of possible events below.
.It ups-name
This is the name of the UPS as specified in the 
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.conf
configuration file - not the name in the EEPROM of a smart UPS. 
.It connected
This is 1 if apcupsd is connected to the UPS via a serial or USB port. 
In the case of a slave machine where apcupsd is not directly connected 
to the UPS, this value will be 0.
.It powered
This is 1 if the computer on which apcupsd is running is powered by the UPS 
and 0 if not. This is not currently implemented and always defaults to 0. 
.El
.Pp
Events are sent to the system log and, optionally, to the temporary 
events file
.Pa ( /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.events ) , 
and they also generate a call to 
.Nm
which in turn will call any scripts you have placed in the 
.Pa /etc/apcupsd 
directory.
.Ss LIST OF EVENTS AND DEFAULT ACTIONS
.Bl -hang -width "commfailure"
.It annoyme
apcupsd generates this event when a shutdown is scheduled, and the time specified by the ANNOYME configuration directive in the 
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.conf
file has expired.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Power problems please logoff." to 
.Xr wall 1
and then exits.
.It battattach
apcupsd generates this event when it detects that the UPS battery has been 
reconnected after a battdetach event. 
.Pp
Default action: does nothing.
.It battdetach
apcupsd generates this event when it detects that the UPS battery has been 
disconnected.
.Pp
Default action: does nothing.
.It changeme
apcupsd generates this event when it detects that the utility power is on, 
but the battery is not functioning correctly. This is repeated every 9 hours.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Emergency! UPS batteries have failed Change them NOW" to wall and then exits.
.It commfailure
apcupsd generates this event each time it loses communication with the monitored
UPS. This event is not detected on simple signalling UPSes like the
Back-UPS 650.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Communications with UPS lost." to wall and then exits.
.It commok
apcupsd generates this event after a commfailure event when communication 
with the UPS is re-established.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Communications with UPS restored." to wall and 
then exits.
.It doreboot
This event is deprecated and should not be used.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Beginning Reboot Sequence" to wall and then calls
.Xr shutdown 8
with the "-r now" command line arguments to reboot the computer.
.It doshutdown
apcupsd generates this event to shutdown the computer when the UPS is running 
on battery power and one of the limits (time, run, load) is reached.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Beginning Shutdown Sequence" to wall and then calls
.Xr shutdown 8
with the command line arguments "-h now" to shutdown the computer.
.It emergency
apcupsd generates this event when the UPS is on battery power, the battery 
is low and the utility power is on: a sure sign of battery failure! 
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Emergency Shutdown. Possible UPS battery failure." 
to wall. Immediately after this, apcupsd generates a doshutdown event to 
shutdown the system.
.It failing
apcupsd generates this event when the UPS is running on batteries and the 
UPS sets the low battery signal indicating that battery power is nearly 
exhausted. After this event, apcupsd will immediately generate a 
doshutdown event.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "UPS battery power exhausted. Doing shutdown." to wall
and then exits.
.It killpower
apcupsd does not normally generate this event. Instead, it is invoked directly
from the system halt script as 'apccontrol killpower' because the killpower 
event needs to be performed as late in system shutdown as possible.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "UPS now committed to shut down" to wall, waits
for 10 seconds and then issues the command "apcupsd --killpower" to put
the UPS into hibernate mode and shut off power to the connected equipment. 
In the case of a smart UPS, the UPS will then wait for the expiry of any 
configured shutdown time delay specified by the SLEEP configuration directive.
In hibernate mode, the UPS will restore utility power to the connected 
equipment subject to the values specified for the RETURNCHARGE and WAKEUP 
configuration directives.
.It loadlimit
apcupsd generates this event when the battery discharge limit specified by 
the BATTERYLEVEL configuration directive has been reached.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "UPS battery discharge limit reached. Doing shutdown"
to wall and then exits. After this event, apcupsd will immediately generate a 
doshutdown event.
.It mainsback
apcupsd generates this event when the utility power returns after a powerout 
event. The doshutdown event may or may not have been generated depending on 
the parameters you have defined and the length of the power outage. Attempting
cancellation of a doshutdown event should never be tried as it is very 
unlikely to succeed and will almost certainly leave your computer in an
indeterminate state.
.Pp
Default action -- if the file
.Pa /var/run/powerfail
exists, sends "Continuing with shutdown." to wall and then exits. Otherwise,
does nothing.
.It onbattery
apcupsd generates this event if a power failure has been detected and 
the UPS is still on battery power at the expiry of the delay specified 
by the ONBATTERYDELAY configuration directive. 
.Pp
Default action -- sends "Power failure. Running on UPS batteries." to wall 
and then exits.
.It offbattery
apcupsd generates this event when the utility power returns if, and only if,
the onbattery event has been generated.
.Pp
Default -- sends ""Power has returned..." to wall and then exits.
.It powerout
apcupsd generates this event as soon as apcupsd detects that the UPS has 
switched to battery power and it is not a self-test.
.Pp
Default action -- does nothing.
.It remotedown
apcupsd generates this event on a slave machine when it detects either (1)
that the master has shutdown, or (2) that an onbattery event has occurred 
and communication with the master has been lost.
.Pp
Default action: sends "Remote Shutdown. Beginning Shutdown Sequence." to wall and exits. Immediately after this, apcupsd generates a doshutdown event to 
shutdown the system.
.It runlimit
apcupsd generates this event when the remaining runtime limit specified by the 
MINUTES configuration directive expires while the UPS is on battery power
as the result of a utility power outage. The remaining runtime is internally 
calculated by the UPS and monitored by apcuspd.
.Pp
Default action -- sends "UPS battery runtime percent reached. Doing shutdown."
to wall and then exits. After this event, apcupsd will immediately generate
a doshutdown event.
.It timeout
apcupsd generates this event when the time specified by the TIMEOUT
configuration directive expires while the UPS is on battery power as the 
result of a utility power outage. This configuration directive is not
normally used with smart UPSes which would instead rely on the more
reliable remaining runtime (MINUTES) or the battery level (BATTERYLEVEL) 
configuration directives.
.Pp
Default action -- send "UPS battery runtime limit exceeded. Doing shutdown."
to wall and then exits. After this event, apcupsd will immediately generate
a doshutdown event.
.It startselftest
apcupsd generates this event when it detects the start of a UPS self test.
.Pp
Default action: does nothing.
.It endselftest
apcupsd generates this event when it detects the end of a UPS self test.
.Pp
Default action: does nothing.
.El
.Ss CUSTOMISING EVENT ACTIONS 
Do
.Em not
modify
.Nm
directly as it will be overwritten the next time you upgrade to a new release
of apcupsd. 
.Pp
The recommended way to customise an event action is simply to create an 
executable program or script file with the same name as the event and put 
that file in the
.Pa /etc/apcupsd
directory. Now, when the selected event occurs,
.Nm
will execute your program or script. 
.Pp
If you want 
.Nm 
to also execute its default action for the selected event, your
program or script should exit with an exit status of 0 (zero).
.Pp
If you do 
.Em not 
want
.Nm
to also execute its default action for the selected event, your
program or script must exit with an exit status of 99. Be aware that if you
completely override the default action, you must ensure the proper shutdown of
your computer if this is necessary.
.Pp
Some sample scripts (changeme, commfailure, commok, offbattery and onbattery) 
that email messages to root instead of broadcasting messages to all logged-in 
users may be found in
.Pa /etc/apcupsd 
after an installation and also in the 
.Pa platforms/etc 
directory of the apcupsd source code. 
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apccontrol
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wall 1 ,
.Xr apcupsd.conf 5 , 
.Xr apcupsd 8 ,
.Xr shutdown 8 .
.Pp
The HTML apcupsd manual installed on your system or available online at
http://www.apcupsd.org/
.Sh AUTHORS
.Ss This page
.An Trevor Roydhouse
.Ss Software
.An Adam Kropelin (current Project Manager and Code Maintainer)
.An Kern Sibbald (former Project Manager and Code Maintainer)
.An Riccardo Facchetti (former Project Manager and Code Maintainer)
.An Andre M. Hedrick (Project Founder and former Code Maintainer)
.Ss Contributors
An enormous number of users who have devoted their time and energy to
this project -- thanks.
