.\" manual page [] for apcupsd version 3.14.6
.Dd January 10, 2009
.Dt APCUPSD 8
.Os apcupsd v3.14.6
.Sh NAME
.Nm apcupsd 
.Nd a daemon for controlling most APC UPSes
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl b 
.Op Fl d Ar level | Fl -debug Ar level
.Op Fl f Ar file | Fl -config-file Ar file
.Op Fl P Ar file | Fl -pid-file Ar file
.Op Fl p | -kill-on-powerfail | t | -term-on-powerfail
.Op Fl R
.Pp
.Nm 
.Op Fl k | -killpower | -hibernate | o | -power-off 
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl h | -help
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl V | -version
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
The
.Nm 
daemon controls the operation of most American Power Conversion Corp 
(APC) UPSes.  During a power failure,
.Nm
informs users about the loss of utility power and that a shutdown may occur.  
If utility power is not restored, a system shutdown will follow when the 
battery is exhausted, a specified timeout expires, a specified battery 
charge percentage is reached, or a specified battery runtime (based on 
internal UPS calculations and determined by power consumption rates)
expires.  If the utility power is restored before one of the these 
shutdown conditions is met, 
.Nm
will inform users of this and the shutdown will generally be cancelled.
Refer to the Implementation Notes section below for situations in which 
the shutdown may not be cancelled.
.Pp
The meaning of the command line options is as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl b
Run in the foreground, do not detach and become a daemon.
.It Fl d Ar level Fl -debug Ar level
Set debugging output level where level is a number greater than zero.
.It Fl f Ar file Fl -config-file Ar file
Load the specified configuration file. 
The default configuration file is 
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.conf .
It must be changed when running more than one copy of
.Nm
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.It Fl k | Fl -killpower | -hibernate
Power down the UPS in hibernate mode after a 10 second delay. This 
option is normally only used by 
.Nm
itself to power down the UPS after a system shutdown has almost completed. 
In hibernate mode, the UPS will again supply power to the system when the 
utility power returns.
.It Fl o | -power-off
Power down UPS completely. The UPS will not supply power to the system
when the utility power returns.
.It Fl P Ar file Fl -pid-file Ar file
Create the specified process ID file. The default is
.Pa /var/run/apcupsd.pid .
It must be changed when running more than one copy of
.Nm
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.It Fl p -kill-on-powerfail
.Nm
commands the UPS to power down in hibernate mode just before
.Nm
starts the system shutdown. This relies on the grace shutdown delay 
of a Smart-UPS being long enough to allow the system to shutdown 
completely before the UPS shuts off the power to the system and goes 
into hibernate mode. This shutdown grace delay is a programmable
value stored in a Smart-UPS EEPROM which can be changed using
.Xr apctest 8 .
In hibernate mode, the UPS will again supply power 
to the system when the utility power returns. Refer to
.Xr apcupsd.conf 5
for an alternative method using the KILLDELAY configuration 
directive and the only method available when using a Back-UPS or other 
UPS operating in simple signalling mode.
.It Fl t -term-on-powerfail
.Nm
exits immediately when it issues the system shutdown command. 
This behaviour is useful for those systems where it is not possible 
to insert 
.Nm
commands in a halt script to issue the killpower command. 
Without this option, 
.Nm
will wait for the SIGTERM signal from the system shutdown process
before exiting.
.It Fl R
Put a UPS which runs in smart signalling mode by default (eg a Smart-UPS)
into simple signalling mode.
.It Fl v -version
Prints the
.Nm
version number and the program help.
.It Fl h  -help
Prints the program help.
.Pp
.El
The
.Nm
daemon supports a networking mode called Network 
Information Server  (NIS) -- not related  to Sun's NIS/YP -- 
in which the daemon serves status and event information to 
clients over a network. See the "Running The Network Information 
Server" section of the apcupsd manual for more information and 
configuration details on this mode.
.Pp
The 
.Nm
daemon also supports a Smart-UPS in SNMP mode provided an APC
Web/SNMP or APC PowerNet SNMP card is installed in the UPS's SmartSlot. 
For more information and configuration details on this mode, refer to the 
"Support for SNMP UPSes" section of the apcupsd manual.
.Pp
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
.Pp
The shutdown is made by calls to the script
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apccontrol
by the
.Nm
daemon.  Consequently, no changes to
.Pa /etc/inittab
are necessary on Linux as there is no communication between the 
daemon and the init(1) process.  Installation of the daemon modifies 
the halt script so that at the end of the shutdown process, the daemon
will be re-executed to power off the UPS in hibernate mode. 
.Pp
On some operating systems (eg FreeBSD) there is no halt script so apccontrol 
must be modified to cause the daemon to power off the UPS after a delay. 
Alternatives are to use the --kill-on-powerfail command on the
.Nm 
command line or refer to 
.Xr apcupsd.conf 5
for details of the KILLDELAY configuration directive. 
.Pp
.Sh CONFIGURATION
It will almost certainly be necessary to customise the configuration 
information in the
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.conf
configuration file to suit your configuration and desired UPS behaviour.
.Pp
For information on the configuration directives and the format of 
the configuration file, refer to 
.Xr apcupsd.conf 5 .
.Pp
.Sh EVENTS
.Pp
.Nm
generates events when certain conditions occur. 
These events are sent to the system log and, optionally,
to the temporary events file 
.Pa ( /var/log/apcupsd.events ) .
They also generate a call to  the
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apccontrol
script which in turn will call any custom scripts placed in the
.Pa /etc/apcupsd
directory which may override apccontrol's default behaviour. For 
details of the events and customising apccontrol's behaviour, refer to
.Xr apccontrol 8 .
.Pp
.Sh DATA FILE FORMAT
.Pp
If the DATATIME configuration directive is set to non-zero, 
.Nm
will log a data record at the interval defined
by the DATATIME directive. This data record is in a format
similar to the APC PowerChute software data file format.
.Sh STATUS REPORT FORMAT
The status report output format is simple ASCII. Generally there
is a single piece of information on each line of output. The
content varies based on the model of UPS being used and, in
some cases, the firmware version. This status report is also
optionally written the the 
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.status
file. Refer to
.Xr apcaccess 8
for full details of the status report output.
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.conf 
default configuration file
.Pp
.Pa /var/run/apcupsd.pid 
default process ID file
.Pp
.Pa /var/log/apcupsd.status 
optional status file
.Pp
.Pa /var/log/apcupsd.events
default events file
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pp
.Xr apcupsd.conf 5 ,
.Xr apcaccess 8 ,
.Xr apccontrol 8 ,
.Xr apctest 8 .
.Pp
The HTML apcupsd manual installed on your system or available online at
http://www.apcupsd.org/
.Pp
.Sh AUTHORS
.Pp
.Ss This page
.An Trevor Roydhouse (current)
.An Andre M. Hedrick 
.An Christopher J. Reimer 
.Pp
.Ss Software
.An Adam Kropelin (current Project Manager and Code Maintainer)
.An Kern Sibbald (former Project Manager and Code Maintainer)
.An Riccardo Facchetti (former Project Manager and Code Maintainer)
.An Andre M. Hedrick (Project Founder and former Code Maintainer)
.Pp
.Ss Contributors
.Pp
An enormous number of users who have devoted their time and energy to 
this project -- thanks.
