.\" manual page [] for apcupsd.conf version 3.14.6
.Pp
.Dd January 10, 2009
.Dt APCUPSD.CONF 5
.Os apcupsd.conf v3.14.6
.Sh NAME
.Nm apcupsd.conf 
.Nd apcupsd(8) configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm 
is the configuration file for the
.Xr apcupsd 8
program.  The file is a plain ASCII text file which comprises a number 
of configuration directives which control how the apcupsd program behaves
when controlling most American Power Conversion Corp (APC) UPSes.
The configuration file is also used for the 
.Xr apctest 8
program when bulk programming the EEPROM in a Smart-UPS model.
.Pp
It will almost certainly be necessary to customise the information 
in the configuration file to suit your particular configuration and 
operating requirements.
.Pp
The configuration file directives are explained in the subsections below.
.Pp 
.Ss GENERAL CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "xxxxxxx"
.It UPSNAME <string>
.Pp
Specify a name for the UPS for log files, status reports etc. 
.It UPSCABLE [\& simple | smart | ether | usb | 940-0119A | 940-0127A | 940-0128A | 940-0020B | 940-0020C | 940-0023A | 940-0024B | 940-0024C | 940-1524C | 940-0024G | 940-0095A | 940-0095B | 940-0095C | MAM-04-02-2000 \&]
.Pp
The type of cable used to connect the UPS to the computer.
.Pp
.It UPSTYPE [\& dumb | apcsmart | net | usb | snmp | pcnet | test \&]
.Pp
The type of APC UPS that you have.
.It DEVICE <name>
.Pp
The name of the device used for communication between the UPS and
the computer. For a USB UPS, you should leave the DEVICE 
directive blank and apcupsd will figure out where the device is 
located. 
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It 
apcsmart
: /dev/tty** (serial connection)
.It 
usb
: leave blank! (USB connection)
.It 
net
: hostname:port (NIS connection)
.It 
snmp
: hostname:port:vendor:community (SNMP connection)
.It 
dumb
: /dev/tty** (serial connection)
.It 
pcnet
: ipaddr:username:passphrase (AP9617 SmartSlot card)
.El
.Pp
If you have problems, please see the apcupsd manual for more 
detailed information and comprehensive troubleshooting advice.
.Pp
.It POLLTIME <seconds>
.Pp
The rate in seconds that the daemon polls the UPS for status.
This rate is automatically set to 1 second when the UPS goes on battery
and reset to the specified value when the utility power returns. This 
setting applies both to directly-attached UPSes and networked UPSes. 
A low setting will improve the daemon's responsiveness to certain events
at the cost of higher CPU utilisation. The default of 60 is appropriate 
for most situations.
.Pp
.It LOCKFILE <path>
.Pp
apcupsd creates a lockfile for the serial or USB port in the specified 
directory.  It must be changed when running more than one copy of apcupsd 
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.

.It SCRIPTDIR <path>
.Pp
Directory in which apccontrol and event scripts are located. 
Defaults to
.Pa /usr/local/etc/apcupsd .
It must be changed when running more than one copy of apcupsd 
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.It PWRFAILDIR <path>
.Pp
Directory in which apcupsd writes the powerfail flag file
created when apcupsd initiates a system shutdown. The directory 
is checked in halt scripts to determine if turning off the 
UPS output power is required.  Defaults to
.Pa /var/run .
It must be changed when running more than one copy of apcupsd 
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.Pp
.It NOLOGINDIR <path>
.Pp
Directory in which apcupsd writes the nologin file which tells 
the OS to disallow new logins. Defaults to
.Pa /var/run .
It must be changed when running more than one copy of apcupsd 
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.El
.Ss NIS CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "xxxxxxx"
.It NETSERVER [\& on | off \&]
.Pp
Turns the network information server (NIS) on or off. When on, 
apcupsd serves status and event information over the network. 
This information is also used by the web-based CGI monitoring 
programs. The default is set to on. 
.Pp
.It NISIP <IP address>
.Pp
Specifies the IP address of the network interface on which
apcupsd will listen for incoming connections. The default value is 
0.0.0.0 which means the NIS will listen for connections on all network 
interfaces. If the computer has more than one interface, you can specify
the IP of a single interface to limit connections to that interface. 
Specifying the loopback address (127.0.0.1) will cause the NIS daemon to 
accept connections only from the local computer. 
.Pp
.It NISPORT <port>
.Pp
Specifies the port to be used by the NIS daemon. The default is 3551 which
has been received from IANA as the official apcupsd networking port. 
It must be changed when running more than one copy of apcupsd 
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.Pp
.It EVENTSFILE <filename>
.Pp
If you want NIS to provide the last 10 events via the network, you must 
specify a file where apcupsd will save these events. The default is:
.Pa /var/log/apcupsd.events .
apcupsd will save at most the last 50 events to this file. When more than 
50 events are saved and a network request for the events arrives, apcupsd 
will truncate the file to the most recent 10 events.
It must be changed when running more than one copy of apcupsd 
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.El
.Ss LOGGING CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "xxxxxxx"
.It STATTIME <seconds>
.Pp 
Specifies the time interval between writes to the status file. If set 
to zero, the status file will not be written. The status file will 
disappear in a future  apcupsd version as its functionality has been 
replaced by the Network Information Server and the
.Xr apcaccess 8
program.
.Pp
.It STATFILE <file>
.Pp
Specifies the file to be used when writing the status information. 
The default is 
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.status .
It must be changed when running more than one copy of apcupsd 
on the same computer to control multiple UPSes.
.Pp
.It LOGSTATS [\& on | off \&]
.Pp
Activate log file. This generates a lot of output, so if you turn 
this on, be sure that the file defined in 
.Xr syslog.conf 5
for LOG_NOTICE is a named pipe.
.Pp
.It DATATIME <seconds>
.Pp
Specifies the time interval between writes of the APC PowerChute 
software-like data information to the log file.
.Pp
.It FACILITY <log-facility>
.Pp
Change the system logging (syslog) facility. The default is daemon.
This parameter can be useful if you wish to direct the apcupsd
system logging information to other than your system default files. 
See
.Xr syslog.conf 5
for details of other possible facilities and general system logging 
configuration.
.Pp
.El
.Ss POWER FAILURE CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "xxxxxxx"
.It ONBATTERYDELAY <seconds>
.Pp
The number of seconds from when a power failure is detected until
apcupsd reacts with an onbattery event.
.Pp
.It BATTERYLEVEL <percentage>
.Pp
apcupsd will shutdown the system during a power failure when 
the remaining battery charge falls below the specified percentage. 
The default is 5.
.Pp
.It MINUTES <minutes>
.Pp
apcupsd will shutdown the system during a power failure when the 
remaining runtime on batteries as internally calculated by the UPS 
falls below the specified minutes. The default is 3.
.Pp
.It TIMEOUT <seconds>
.Pp
After a power failure occurs, 
apcupsd will shutdown the system after the specified number of seconds 
have expired.  For a Smart-UPS, this should normally be set to zero so 
that the shutdown time will be determined by the battery level or 
remaining runtime (see above). This command is, however, useful for 
a Back-UPS or other simple signalling UPS which does not report 
battery level or the remaining runtime. It is also useful for testing 
apcupsd because you can force a rapid shutdown by setting a small 
value (eg 60) and turning off the power to the UPS. 
.Pp
TIMEOUT, BATTERYLEVEL, and MINUTES can all be set without problems. 
apcupsd will initiate a shutdown when the first of these conditions
becomes valid.
.Pp
.It ANNOY <seconds>
.Pp
Specifies the time in seconds between broadcast messages requesting
logged in users to log off from the system. This timer starts only when
the UPS is running on battery. The default is 300 seconds (5 minutes).
.Pp
.It  ANNOYDELAY <seconds>
.Pp
Specifies the delay time in seconds before broadcast messages requesting
logged in users to log off from the system. This timer starts
only after the UPS is running on battery power. This timer is reset when 
the power returns. The default is 60 seconds (ie the first request to 
log off occurs after 60 seconds on battery power).
.Pp
.It NOLOGON [\& disable | timeout | percent | minutes | always \&]
.Pp
Specifies when apcupsd should create the nologon file to prevent users
from logging on to the system.
.Pp
"disable" prevents apcupsd from creating the nologin file.
.Pp
"timeout" specifies a specific wait time before apcupsd
creates the nologin file.
.Pp
"percent" specifies the percentage of battery charge remaining before
apcupsd creates the nologin file. 
.Pp
"minutes" specifies the battery runtime remaining before 
apcupsd creates the nologin file.
.Pp
"always" specifies that
apcupsd should create the nologin file immediately after 
a power failure occurs.
.Pp
This directive is important for allowing systems with BIG UPSes 
to run normally until the system administrator determines the 
need for dumping users.  It also allows the system administrator 
to hold the "ANNOY" factor until the 
.Pa /etc/nologin
file is created.
.Pp
.It KILLDELAY <seconds>
.Pp
Specifies the number of seconds for which apcupsd
will continue running after a shutdown has been requested. After 
the specified time, apcupsd will attempt to put the UPS into 
hibernate mode and kill the power to the computer. This is for 
use on operating systems where apcupsd cannot regain control after a 
shutdown (eg FreeBSD) to issue an apcupsd --killpower command. Setting 
the delay to 0 disables it.
.El
.Ss SHARE-UPS CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "xxxxxxx"
.It UPSCLASS [\& standalone | shareslave | sharemaster \&]
.Pp
The default is "standalone" and should be used for 
all computers powered by the UPS,  with a direct connection to 
the UPS and where there are no other computers dependent on power 
from the UPS. This is the "normal" case.
.Pp
Use "shareslave" if you are using a Share-UPS interface expander 
and connected to the BASIC port (simple signalling). 
.Pp
Use "sharemaster", if you are using a Share-UPS interface
expander and connected to the ADVANCED port (smart signalling). 
.Pp
.It UPSMODE [\& disable | share \&]
.Pp
Set to "disable" for normal standalone operation to indicate that 
you are disabling the Share-UPS interface expander support.
.Pp
Set to "share" for two to seven additional simple signalling ports
on a Share-UPS interface expander. This code may not be fully tested
in every new release.
.El
.Ss APCTEST EEPROM CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES
.Pp
These directives have no effect on the operation of 
.Xr apcupsd 8
but are reserved for use by
.Xr apctest 8
when bulk programming the values of the UPS EEPROM configuration variables 
in a Smart-UPS model.
.Pp
.Bl -hang -width "xxxxxxx"
.It UPSNAME <string>
.Pp
Name of UPS. Maximum of 8 characters.
.Pp
.It BATTDATE [\& mm/dd/yy | dd/mm/yy \&]
.Pp
Last battery replacement date. Maximum of 8 characters.
.Pp
.It SENSITIVITY [\& H | M | L \&]
.Pp
.Bl -item -nested -compact
.It 
H : High (most sensitive setting)
.It 
M : Medium
.It 
L : Low (least sensitive setting)
.El
.It WAKEUP [\& 000 | 060 | 180 | 300 \&]    
.Pp
The time delay in seconds that the UPS waits after the return of utility 
power before "waking up" and restoring power to the connected equipment.
.Pp
.It SLEEP [\& 020 | 180 | 300 | 600 \&]
.Pp
The time delay in seconds for which the UPS waits or "sleeps" after 
it receives a request to power off the connected system.
.Pp
.It LOTRANSFER <voltage>
.Pp
Low line voltage causing transfer to battery power or activation of SmartBoost.
Allowable values depend on the last letter of the firmware or APCMODEL.
Typical values are:
.Pp
  D  106  103  100  097
  M  177  172  168  182
  A  092  090  088  086
  I  208  204  200  196
.Pp
where D = domestic (USA), M = Canada, A = Asia and I = International.
.Pp
.It HITRANSFER <voltage>
.Pp
High line voltage causing transfer to battery power or activation of SmartTrim.
Allowable values depend on the last letter of the firmware or APCMODEL.
Typical values are:
.Pp
  D  127  130  133  136
  M  229  234  239  224
  A  108  110  112  114
  I  253  257  261  265
.Pp
where D = domestic (USA), M = Canada, A = Asia and I = International.
.Pp
.It RETURNCHARGE [\& 00 | 15 | 50 | 90 \&]
.Pp
Percentage of battery charge needed for the UPS to restore power to the 
connected equipment.
.Pp
.It BEEPSTATE [\& 0 | T | L | N \&]
.Pp
Alarm delay.
.Pp
.Bl -item -nested -compact
.It 
0 : Zero delay after power fails.
.It
T : When power fails plus 30 seconds.
.It
L : When low battery occurs.
.It
N : Never.
.El
.It LOWBATT <minutes>
.Pp
Low battery warning occurs when the specified number of minutes remains
before the UPS estimates battery power will be exhausted. There are four 
user-changeable settings: 2, 5, 7, or 10 minutes
.Pp
.It OUTPUTVOLTS <voltage>
.Pp
UPS nominal output voltage when running on battery.
Allowable values depend on the last letter of the firmware or APCMODEL.
Typical values are:
.Pp
  D  115
  M  208
  A  100
  I  230  240  220  225
.Pp
where D = domestic (USA), M = Canada, A = Asia and I = International.
.Pp
.It SELFTEST [\& 336 | 168 | ON | OFF \&]
.Pp
Self test interval in hours (336 = 2 weeks, 168 = 1 week, 
ON = at power on, OFF = never).
.Pp
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Note that in the following examples, the device names assume that
you are using Linux. Device names for serial devices in *BSD and
other operating systems will be different.
.Pp
.Ss Minimal USB Configuration for a USB UPS
     UPSCABLE usb
     UPSTYPE usb
     DEVICE
     LOCKFILE /var/lock
     UPSCLASS standalone
     UPSMODE disable
.Pp
Notice no device name is specified. 
.Xr apcupsd 8
will try all the well known USB ports. Only specify a specific 
USB device name if you know what you are doing. For detailed
information on setting up a USB UPS, refer to the "USB Configuration"
section of the apcupsd manual.
.Ss Minimal Serial Configuration for a Smart UPS
     UPSCABLE smart
     UPSTYPE apcsmart
     DEVICE /dev/ttyS0
     LOCKFILE /var/lock
     UPSCLASS standalone
     UPSMODE disable
.Pp
Normally there would be more configuration directives to 
completely customise your installation, but this example shows 
the minimum required.
.Ss Minimal Serial Configuration for a Dumb UPS
     UPSCABLE <number of the cable used>
     UPSTYPE dumb
     DEVICE /dev/ttyS0
     LOCKFILE /var/lock
     UPSCLASS standalone
     UPSMODE disable
.Pp
If your cable does not have low battery detection (eg such 
cables include the APC 940-0020B and 940-0023A), you will also 
need to define the TIMEOUT <seconds> configuration directive to set 
the number of seconds on battery during a power failure after which 
apcupsd will do a system shutdown.
.Pp
Normally there would be more configuration directives to 
completely customise your installation, but this example shows 
the minimum required.
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Pa /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.conf 
default configuration file
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pp
.Xr syslog.conf 5 ,
.Xr apcupsd 8 ,
.Xr apctest 8 .
.Pp
The HTML apcupsd manual installed on your system or available online at
http://www.apcupsd.org/
.Sh AUTHORS
.Pp
.An Trevor Roydhouse (current)
.An Andre M. Hedrick         
.An Christopher J. Reimer         
