.\" Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" Skeleton based on nano-tiny.1:
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" This document is dual-licensed.  You may distribute and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of either of the following licenses:
.\"
.\" * The GNU General Public License, as published by the Free Software
.\"   Foundation, version 3 or (at your option) any later version.  You
.\"   should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\"   along with this program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" * The GNU Free Documentation License, as published by the Free
.\"   Software Foundation, version 1.2 or (at your option) any later
.\"   version, with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no
.\"   Back-Cover Texts.  You should have received a copy of the GNU Free
.\"   Documentation License along with this program.  If not, see
.\"   <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" $Id: rnano.1 4188 2007-12-08 04:27:44Z dolorous $
.TH RNANO 1 "version 2.0.0" "August 23, 2007"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.SH NAME
rnano \- Restricted mode for Nano's ANOther editor, an enhanced free
Pico clone

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rnano
.I [OPTIONS]\ [[\+LINE,COLUMN]\ FILE]...
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly documents the \fBrnano\fP command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBnano\fP is a small, free and friendly editor which aims to replace
Pico, the default editor included in the non-free Pine package. Rather
than just copying Pico's look and feel, \fBnano\fP also implements some
missing (or disabled by default) features in Pico, such as "search and
replace" and "go to line and column number".
.PP
\fBrnano\fP is a restricted version of \fBnano\fP, which only edits
specific files and doesn't allow the user access to the filesystem or a
command shell.
.PP
In restricted mode, \fBnano\fP will \fInot\fP:
.IP \[bu] 2
read or write to any file not specified on the command line;
.IP \[bu]
read any nanorc files;
.IP \[bu]
allow suspending;
.IP \[bu]
allow a file to be appended to, prepended to, or saved under a different
name;
.IP \[bu]
use backup files or spell checking.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \+\fILINE\fP,\fICOLUMN\fP
Places cursor at line number \fILINE\fP and column number \fICOLUMN\fP
(at least one of which must be specified) on startup, instead of the
default of line 1, column 1.
.TP
.B \-?
Same as \fB-h (\-\-help)\fP.
.TP
.B \-h (\-\-help)
Show a summary of command line options and exit.
.TP
.B \-V (\-\-version)
Show the current version number and exit.
.PP
See the \fBnano\fP(1) manpage for the complete documentation of
\fBnano\fP.

.SH BUGS
Please send any comments or bug reports to \fBnano@nano-editor.org\fP.

The \fBnano\fP mailing list is available from \fBnano-devel@gnu.org\fP.

To subscribe, email to \fBnano-devel-request@gnu.org\fP with a subject
of "subscribe".

.SH HOMEPAGE
http://www.nano-editor.org/

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Allegretta <chrisa@asty.org>, et al (see AUTHORS for details).
This manual page was originally written by Thijs Kinkhorst
<thijs@kinkhorst.com>, for the Debian system (but may be used by
others).
